{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Cats\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs32 \cf0 Cats, also called domestic cats (Felis catus), are carnivorous (meat-eating) mammals, of the family Felidae.,\
Cats have been domesticated (tame) for nearly 10,000 years.[2] They are one of the most popular pets in the world. Their origin is probably the African Wildcat Felis silvestris lybica.\
Cats were probably first kept because they ate mice, and this is still their main 'job' in farms throughout the world. Later they were kept because they are friendly and good companions. A young cat is called a kitten. Cats are sometimes called kitty or pussycat. A female cat that has not had its sex organs removed is called a queen. A male cat that has not had its sex organs removed is called a tom.\
Domestic cats are found in shorthair, longhair, and hairless breeds. Cats which are not specific breeds can be referred to as 'domestic shorthair' (DSH) or 'domestic longhair' (DLH).\
The word 'cat' is also used for other felines. Felines are usually called either big cats or small cats. The big cats are well known: lions, tigers, leopards, jaguars, pumas, and cheetahs. There are small cats in most parts of the world, such as the lynx in northern Europe. The big cats and wild cats are not tame, and can be very dangerous.\
The domestic cat is a small, typically furry carnivorous mammal. They are often called house cats when kept as indoor pets.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b\fs48 \cf0 Behavior\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs32 \cf0 The cat on the right is fed up with the cat on the left and this is a semi-serious warning. \
The stripes on this standard tabby cat help it hide in long grass and bushes. It's a kind of camouflage. Cats are active carnivores,[9] meaning they hunt live prey. Their main prey is small mammals (like mice). They will also stalk, and sometimes kill and eat, birds. Cats eat a wide variety of prey, including insects, and seem especially to like house flies and bluebottles. Their main method of hunting is stalk and pounce. While dogs have great stamina and will chase prey over long distances, cats are extremely fast, but only over short distances. The basic cat coat colouring, tabby (see top photo), gives it good camouflage in grass and woodland. The cat creeps towards a chosen victim, keeping its body flat and near to the ground so that it cannot be seen easily, until it is close enough for a rapid dash or pounce. Cats, especially kittens, practice these instinctive behaviours in play with each other or on small toys.\
Cats are quiet and well-behaved animals, making them popular pets. Young kittens are playful. They can easily entertain themselves with a variety of store-bought or homemade toys. House cats have also been known to teach themselves to use lever-type doorknobs and toilet handles.[10]\
Cats are fairly independent animals. They can look after themselves and do not need as much attention as dogs do.}